# CSSP_Public
Instructions on how to download the CSSP model from GitHub

1. In order to ensure that the code is used appropriately, we share our code using an application. 
2. Applicants need to send their GitHub account name or email name to our email address （pengji@nuist.edu.cn / xyuan@nuist.edu.cn), and indicate the purpose of the code download.
3.  We will add the applicant to the private repository of the code after reviewing the application.


# A brief introdcution to CSSP model
The CSSPv2 is based on the Common Land Model (CoLM) (Dai et al. 2003) and inherits its advantages in simulating terrestrial water and energy processes (e.g., a five-layer snow module and a two-big-leaf model). The five-layer snow module changes the layer thickness dynamically according to the snow depth to better solve the snow melting, percolation, refreezing, and compaction. The snow albedo is parameterized according to the snow age, grain size, solar zenith angle, and fresh snow amount (Dai et al. 2003). The two-big-leaf model that considers sunlit and shaded fractions of the canopy is used to calculate canopy radiation transfer, photosynthesis, stomatal conductance, leaf temperature, and surface energy fluxes (Dai et al. 2004). The momentum, sensible heat flux, and latent heat flux are derived based on the Monin–Obukhov similarity theory.
The CSSPv2 has a larger soil layer depth (5.67 m) than the CoLM (3.43 m) to simulate the hydrological processes in the critical zone (e.g., 0–5 m) (Kollet and Maxwell 2008). The CSSPv2 solves soil moisture using the three-dimensional volume-averaged soil moisture transport (VAST) model, which decomposes the three-dimensional Richards’s equation into volume-averaged and perturbed terms and parameterizes the perturbed soil moisture terms based on subgrid topographic variability (Choi et al. 2007). The lateral soil water fluxes derived from the three-dimensional VAST model have a vital influence on soil moisture heterogeneity over humid mountainous regions at 1-km or finer spatial resolutions (Ji et al. 2017), which is a key process for hyper-resolution land surface modeling. The variable infiltration capacity (VIC) model (Liang et al. 1994) was incorporated into the CSSPv2 to model runoff (Yuan et al. 2018). This storage-based runoff scheme outperforms the
groundwater-based runoff schemes over seasonally frozen and mountainous regions (Li et al. 2011; Yuan et al. 2018; Zheng et al. 2017).
Due to the crucial impacts of urbanization, a single-layer urban canopy model with a similar structure to that in the CLM model was included in the CSSPv2 (Ji et al. 2021). The model grid is divided into nonurban and urban tiles, and each tile has its own energy and water balance. Urbanization is also considered by changing the urban fraction each year.
